 Today, I'm welcoming Matthias Ed of Data for Marketing at N26,
 the NeoBank based in Berlin,
 valued at over $9 billion.
 We'll be talking about one of his greatest challenges
 over the past few years, creating and scaling the data team
 dedicated to marketing at N26.
 For example, he will explain some of the long term objectives
 of his team, including building what we call
 a marketing mix modeling, lifetime user value models,
 and he will tell us how he scaled the team to 12 people
 and how they are organized.
 Hi Matthias, great to have you here, how are you?
 Hey Robin, it's a pleasure to be here finally
 on the other side of a podcast I've been listening
 for a while, so yeah, it's an honor, thank you for having me.
 Can you tell us more about N26 to start this?
 N26 is a mobile bank that's been created in 2013.
 Originally, it was built as a kid's account,
 but the parents loved the product so much
 that they wanted to use it for themselves.
 And that's how we took over Europe by storm.
 Originally, it was just core banking.
 Now, we also have investment products like crypto, ETF stocks,
 but we also have products like ESIM,
 we're basically trying to cater for digital nomads
 and traveling populations, where 1,500 employees,
 the many quarters are in Berlin,
 but we also have tech hubs in Barcelona
 and in Vienna, we also have offices,
 local regulatory branches in France, in Spain, in Italy,
 and in Vienna as well.
 We currently have more than 5 million customers,
 500 employees as well in the product and tech organization.
 Obviously, we will get into more details about the data strategy
 and notably the data for marketing strategy,
 but can you also just give us an overview
 of how many people they are in the data team?
 Our data team or our data setup per se is a bit unusual
 because there's no central data organization within the business.
 We don't have a VP of data,
 which is to have individuals' data teams
 or data functions across the org.
 So we have a data platform team,
 which sits in platform engineering,
 which is responsible for doing all of the platform
 for analytics engineers, analysts, or data scientists
 to use for the reporting.
 In this team, it's approximately 20 people strong.
 We have different types of profiles,
 that reliability engineers, machine learning engineers,
 and data engineers.
 We have a central data analytics team,
 which is 25 people strong
 that covers every area in the business,
 except from the marketing department.
 We have an analytics engineering team,
 which serves the data analytics team,
 12 people strong,
 and we also have a central data science team
 and data products team,
 approximately 20 people strong,
 which are responsible for building the machine learning model
 that power our product and our bank itself.
 Those are the central data functions.
 Obviously, I'm leading the marketing data team.
 I'm the only full stack team within the business,
 sitting in the marketing department.
 We're gonna get into how this came to be,
 but within my team,
 I do have the three types of profile,
 data scientist, analytics engineers,
 and marketing analyst.
 Can you tell us a bit more about how you ended up in this role?
 I originally have a business background,
 but I was always very much interested in to tech.
 I did two internships,
 dedicated to bridging the gap
 between business, business and tech.
 I found a number of studies internship at ElowFresh in 2017.
 This was the time where ElowFresh was the biggest
 Caleb in Europe.
 And so I joined May 2017,
 when I left May 2020, three years after,
 the team that I joined, marketing BI as an analyst,
 I'd gone from four people to 12 people.
 And I cannot basically describe all of the topics
 I worked on because of this constant energy
 of we need to build all of this.
 And so at the time, a friend of mine,
 from ElowFresh, I'd moved to N26
 and told me that they were looking
 for exactly someone with my type of profile
 to build the marketing data or marketing analytics team there,
 because in 2020 and 26 was expected
 to have the same growth as ElowFresh add,
 and they were looking for someone that had experienced it already
 in order to then apply those practices at N26.
 So maybe you can tell us more about the context
 because you said earlier you would get into like,
 why is the marketing team the only team
 that is a separate let's say from the central data teams?
 Like in a lot of organization, I believe,
 we had an equivalent of a data team in the tech department
 that was meant to service the different business functions.
 However, the data team was following their own priorities
 and the marketing team, therefore,
 decided to hire their own analysts.
 So when I joined the data team in order
 to lead the marketing analytics function in the data team,
 but there was already one analyst in the marketing team
 that was reporting to the director of paid marketing at the time.
 The separation of work between the two teams
 where my team works more on data products
 while the analyst in the marketing team
 helps more answering adult questions and giving its sites
 on the performance of the marketing campaigns.
 That's forward a bit of time.
 The director of performance marketing
 who was leading the analytics function
 and the marketing analyst decided to leave the business.
 And so at that time, the CMO approached me
 and asked me whether I could in interim lead
 the marketing analytics function as well,
 granted that I receive at count with it.
 I accepted the mend it and under this context,
 I was able to hire for both the marketing analytics function
 and the data analytics function quotation mark
 in order to start creating the first drafts
 of a marketing data team.
 The people in the data team became more analytics engineers
 because this was also the rise and shine
 of the analytics engineering era 2021-2022
 and the analysts from the marketing analyst function
 were becoming really data analysts per se.
 The more the team grew and evolved,
 the harder the questions we were getting,
 the more data scientists support we needed.
 So we started collaborating with the central data science team
 in 2024 because it was acknowledged
 that both three teams were working very, very well together.
 We decided to consolidate all three sub teams
 into one department, which was my department
 and all of the team moved into the marketing function.
 Is it like a specificity you think of the business
 of the banking business that may be the need
 in terms of data is bigger for marketing than, for instance,
 a new other function like product or finance
 or is it also just like a question of context
 or just like maybe the CMO wanted to have the team close
 to the marketing, are there like other explanations?
 I like to think that it's not because of the business per se,
 whether it's finance, I call them or something like that.
 I like to think that it's more marketing
 versus other business domains versus, for example,
 ops or product analytics.
 There are some ways where I could see more predictive analytics
 or more data science need within those business domains,
 but in marketing, one of the core pillar,
 a lot of the questions that we need to answer
 are based on predictive analytics.
 And if we want to be able to serve better marketing campaigns
 or target the better customer, et cetera, et cetera,
 we do need data science.
 And if we need data science, generally,
 we also need the entire data value stream.
 So we need engineers to provide the data
 to these data scientists.
 And we need analysts that help translate
 the output of the data science models to business insights
 and to support leadership and stakeholders
 in taking decisions.
 Before getting into the projects
 like marketing, mix modeling, et cetera,
 that you just mentioned,
 how is the team organized, the 12 people in the team?
 Historically, we organized the team
 based on the talent that we already had.
 So when I joined, I had only two team members reporting to me,
 one that adds more of a performance marketing background,
 very much focused on everything that was a position
 and another team member that had been
 with the company for two or three years
 that had a business background, finance background,
 and that was way more knowledgeable
 on everything that was related to our PNL,
 to our engagement strategy, to our monetization strategy.
 And we therefore decided when we scaled the team
 to organize the team based on these two types of profile.
 And so what we did at the time, so until 2023,
 was we were based on what we call data domains.
 And the person that was really good at acquisition
 was leading what I called attract and acquire.
 So the team that would analyze or build data products
 to analyze the journey from being a prospect
 to the acquisition of the customer.
 So when we talk about, for example, KPIs,
 it's everything from understanding brand awareness
 to the number of signups and building all of the products
 and insights around this.
 And then the second team member was dedicated
 to what we call engage and monetize.
 So once we have the signup, how do we make sure
 that the signup becomes the first time user,
 does a transaction with the app?
 To the very last touch point that we have with this customer.
 So when this customer churn and closes their account.
 For both teams, we add analytics engineering support
 and data science support.
 In 2023, the person responsible for engage and monetize
 decided to leave the team.
 It's had been six or seven years.
 He had been with the business.
 And so we went to a more traditional setup
 of one lead for analytics engineering,
 one lead for data science, one lead for analytics.
 However, the domains, the horizontal domains
 of attract and acquire and engage and monetize
 were still splits because you do need
 to develop a specific type of expertise in both of the domain
 and therefore sometimes the profiles were a bit different.
 So still within the function,
 people would be specialized on specific domains.
 Exactly, yeah.
 What have been your biggest projects over the past few years?
 I'll many focus in this podcast on everything
 that's related to acquisition.
 And when you think about marketing and acquisition in general,
 you always need to answer two type of questions.
 Or the CMO always has two types of questions.
 The first one is how much does it cost to acquire one customer?
 When I say acquiring one customer,
 it's obviously at the lower level of granularity as well,
 meaning in this country, in this marketing channel.
 And then the second question that comes is,
 where should I therefore invest my next year row?
 Those two types of questions, there's two different models
 that you need to build in order to answer them.
 The first one is marketing next model.
 Historically, we were able to do marketing attribution.
 So telling where a customer comes from,
 a lot through web tracking, if we're talking about e-commerce,
 subscription based models, et cetera.
 We were able to do it through web tracking
 because there wasn't ad blockers across device journeys
 that didn't exist that much in the past.
 And privacy constraints allowed us to collect a lot of data
 in order to tie those customer journeys
 in order to give a customer acquisition cost.
 Over the last years, the complexity increased
 because of increased privacy as well as our marketing
 changed towards more offline channels.
 So for example, TV out of all media billboard campaigns
 in the street, in the subway.
 And these are activities that you cannot track online.
 And therefore, we add to go back to a methodology
 from the 1980s, which is called Marketing Mix Modeling,
 where you will give to this model a lot of information
 about your marketing campaigns, about your competitors' activity,
 about some type of events, macroeconomic events,
 for example, that can occur within a specific market
 in order for them to give you the number of signups
 and give a more accurate picture of the number of signups
 that you're getting per marketing channel.
 And so for getting this data, you would, for example,
 plug yourself to sensor tower
 if you want to get competitors' data
 or tools like similar web in order to monitor
 the number of visits that your competitors have.
 You would need to build.
 And so this is what we did internally,
 a so-called growth event logger, which was basically
 a library of all of the events that occurred within the business.
 So for example, oh, we're getting a top priority incident
 where the website is down for three hours.
 Well, obviously, this does impact the number of signups
 that we have.
 And we need to be able to feed the model on this specific event
 for it to understand that despite your I spend today,
 well, the number of signups was lower.
 You will also map every macroeconomic factor
 within a specific country or set of countries.
 For example, where a bank increasing interest rates
 or decreasing interest rates from the European central bank
 and to which we also react
 by changing some of our savings products interest rates,
 obviously, as a big impact on the way our sales
 or our signups react.
 So for this, we actually built this growth event logger.
 Maybe just a quick question.
 How does it materialize this model?
 So I understand that you will collect everything that you can.
 And then what is the model?
 Is it some kind of a undershelf machine learning model?
 What is it?
 We discussed a bit the data collection
 and everything that's needed in order to be fed into this model.
 The model that we use, it's a model created by Google
 and that we calibrate ourselves.
 It's called Meridian, but most major advertising platforms
 also have and provide Python packages
 or our packages in order to build your MMM.
 There's, for example, Robin from Facebook
 with a Y, not an A, there's Orbit from Uber
 and a very big new contestant is called PiMC3,
 which is an independent consultant firm.
 But so we have this Python model
 that we calibrate and that we train based on our data
 as an output metric, we are looking at the number of signups.
 And so we give all of this data to the model,
 we tell them this is the number of signups per day
 that we have, figure out for these number of signups per day
 based on all of the information that we gave you
 which channels brought what number of signups.
 But this gives us the actual number of signups per day
 per channel and also gives us more insights
 based on seasonality, for example, and explains to us,
 this is signups that would have come organically,
 it's your baseline, these are the signups
 that you got thanks to specific events
 or that you lost because of specific events,
 those are the ones that are coming from media
 and those are, for example, the ones coming from seasonality
 because behaviors are not the same
 at the beginning of the year versus the middle of the year.
 And then you will also use it more like for forecasting purposes
 like for direct the strategy.
 We use it for budget optimization purposes.
 There's methods that you can use with Meridian, for example,
 where you give the number of spend to optimize towards
 and they could give you the perfect channel mix.
 The problem with that is that right now
 we're still only answering the question
 of the customer acquisition cost
 and not necessarily the quality of the customers that we're getting,
 which is, where do I want to invest my next Euro?
 And for the next Euro that I want to invest,
 I want to also be able to invest into profitable customers.
 When you think about customer acquisition costs,
 you need to always compare it to lifetime value.
 So how much money will this customer bring me
 over their entire lifetime so that you can have optimized
 towards those profitable customers?
 What you want is what we call the LTV over CAC ratio of more than one,
 so that you're making money out of the customers that you acquire.
 And so you're able to feed also this data
 into the model to direct the recommendations
 or is it like a bit like two separate analysis?
 The target, the North Star, is to bridge the gap between the two of them.
 This is not where we are at the moment.
 Unfortunately, we've developed both models separately
 with built a bridge between them using simple heuristics.
 But yes, the main target is to be able to really bridge the gap between the two
 is just that lifetime value in itself is already a very heavy project.
 We called it internally more user value
 because as we're still a young scale up,
 obviously we cannot model lifetime of a customer
 because, for example, in the banking industry,
 it's well known that the average lifetime of a user is 15 years.
 We have not been in business for 15 years.
 So because of that, we decided to go with user value and to predict the profits
 that a user would bring to us two years in the future after their conversion.
 The reason we decided to go with two years was to be able to optimize
 for a payback period of two years.
 And so when we go back to this lifetime value slash user value ratio over CAC,
 it means that if the user value of the user in the future in two years
 is going to be 100 euros,
 it means that if we invest 100 euros to acquire this customer today
 in two years, we break even.
 And so in two years and one month, we make money out of this user.
 User value in itself was also quite heavy project
 because it deals with the financials of the entire business.
 And for this, we needed to start with what we call the user PNL.
 So a table per user per month with each one of their costs and revenues,
 whether it's customer service costs, which, for example,
 are also a nightmare of their own to track and to organize,
 or their different revenue streams,
 whether it's the transaction fees that we're getting,
 whether it's their membership subscription, et cetera, et cetera.
 When you kickstart a project like this one,
 there's a lot of stakeholders that are interested, not only in marketing,
 but also in finance, for example.
 And therefore, what you need to do in terms of data governance also
 is to make sure that everyone is aligned on the methodologies
 that you're going to use when doing the model and the prediction.
 So some of the questions, for example,
 when we're talking about membership revenues,
 do I front load all of the membership revenues?
 So on the monthly basis,
 you're paying your membership subscription, right?
 How should I do it when I model it?
 Should I say that a, Robin is going to be our customer for a year.
 So the 10-year-olds that he pays monthly,
 I would just say it's 120-year-olds from the beginning,
 because this is how finance does it.
 Or should we do it on a month-per-month basis?
 Because I don't want to model and realize revenue,
 because maybe in three months,
 Robin is going to disappear from our customer base.
 This is the type of questions that we need to align
 to make sure that there's a global understanding
 between each one of the departments,
 and so for this, for example,
 we set up a steering committee
 when we started the project originally,
 made of the finance business partner, the CMO, the project lead,
 who was basically documenting all of these information
 across the project development.
 And now that the project has been delivered,
 now it's more in the maintenance stage.
 The idea is to still have a proper governance framework around it
 with each time there's an update in the P&L,
 to be able to update downstream-impacted teams
 about those changes.
 So if, for example, we decide not to frontload anymore,
 there needs to be communication lines
 across every person impacted downstream
 so that we can basically react to it.
 And so the second main work stream, let's say,
 that you mentioned was the data governance
 and data quality work stream,
 which is directly linked to these projects.
 So maybe can you tell us more about that?
 When we're talking about the marketing mix model,
 we were talking about the different types of input
 that go into it.
 So this event log, this marketing spend
 from each one of the marketing campaigns
 and the competitors' activity.
 Obviously, in order to be able to run the inference,
 so run the model on a weekly basis,
 we need to have proper data governance framework
 and making sure that the pipelines are running every day
 smoothly with data quality controls
 and everything that goes with it.
 There's also an entire part of making sure
 that the marketing managers use naming conventions properly
 because from the marketing campaigns that they run,
 we're able to infer a lot of metadata
 on the type of campaigns.
 For example, say we're running a campaign on Facebook,
 we will want to know for our marketing mix model,
 what's the objective of the campaign?
 Which is the audience of the campaign?
 Who are we targeting?
 What is the product that we're pushing?
 What is the funnel in which we're showing this ad?
 So what I mean by funnel is,
 are we trying to build product awareness
 or are we trying to build consideration of these users?
 I haven't mentioned it before on the building
 the marketing mix model per se,
 but all of this information, this metadata,
 is also something that we feed to the model
 because the model needs to know
 on a specific channel or objective level
 what was the spend used for?
 So when you spend money, for example, on out of home,
 you're the market and your customers
 are not going to react the same way
 as if you spend money on Google ads.
 Google ads is what we call a pull channel.
 It's generally in order to acquire customers
 that are already interested.
 People discover the brand on out of home.
 And so for this, we also had to build
 a set of campaign management tools
 that made sure that all of the campaigns on the platform
 add the proper naming conventions
 and that when we receive this data in the MM,
 it's actually validated.
 And the information is parsed correctly
 when collecting this information.
 It's really from the data collection
 to the modeling to the serving of the information
 that we needed to build, tests all along the way.
 And what tech stack are you using at N26
 to build all of that?
 AWS is our main cloud provider.
 Therefore, we use most of the tools
 provided natively by AWS.
 We're using SageMaker for everything
 that's advanced analytics, machine learning,
 doing causal inference computations.
 It's really our ML platform.
 S3 as our data lake and redshift as our data warehouse.
 In general, because we're a bank,
 we're trying to have as much as possible
 as an open source slash source available philosophy
 because in order to stay compliant,
 we need to be able to do third-party risk assessments
 easily when onboarding new tools.
 And so sometimes, especially when we want to work
 with a big provider for small contracts,
 the number of questions that we ask those providers
 in order to make sure that they can have business continuity
 when working with us, et cetera,
 is generally not worthwhile either for them or for us.
 And so we always try to find something
 where we can audit the code ourselves
 and do the risk assessments ourselves
 in order to onboard the new platforms.
 As such, we're very much on a data open source stack
 with Snowplow for everything that's tracking,
 front end tracking, back end tracking,
 open metadata as our data catalog,
 DBT for our transformation layer,
 meta-based for data visualization,
 and for everything that's our ETL processes,
 it's very much homemade,
 but we're currently exploring Airflow
 as our ETL platform going forward.
 And what were the main challenges you'd say on this whole journey?
 For the challenges, I'll actually split them into
 one more professional and context-wise,
 one more personal.
 So for the professional one,
 I'd say the instability of the environment,
 it's a skate-up, things go fast, things change fast,
 whether in terms of priorities,
 in terms of the product direction, in terms of people.
 And so you need to get used to this volatility in your job.
 So when I talk about people, for example,
 the stakeholders, the service providers,
 or the leadership sometimes changed.
 And because of that, while you're trying to maintain
 as much as possible your little silo of data team
 and of product delivery, obviously,
 a product is only as good as when people use it
 and are satisfied with it.
 You need to restart every time education.
 Trust when it comes to the numbers you're producing,
 because sometimes it's predictive value,
 and if the person doesn't like the numbers that they see,
 well, you're in a pickle
 and you need to re-educate them from the get-go.
 And so basically building this mental resilience of always
 and also the set of tools and frameworks,
 education tools, for example, trainings, et cetera,
 in order to make sure that whoever gets onboarded
 in the team, externally to the team,
 builds the trust towards what you built immediately
 and can start adopting the products as fast as possible.
 This was definitely one of the, if not the biggest challenge.
 On the more technical side,
 it's the product direction changing.
 So I mentioned earlier the data PNL,
 the user PNL and the lifetime value.
 Well, in the last five years,
 we've shipped a lot of consumer facing products.
 I mentioned crypto trading, ETF trading, stop trading,
 savings account, a lot of different products,
 for which we need to be able to model the future profits
 on a user level.
 Well, how do we predict based on data that's in existing?
 You need to model revenue streams,
 you have zero historical data for them.
 And so you end up mixing assumptions,
 hyper and parameter tuning and doing a lot of rapid iterations
 just to keep your models being relevant
 and not losing the trust of your stakeholders.
 This, you add the macro layer, the ECB rates,
 treasury income shifting and you're always really rebuilding
 the foundations that your models stand for.
 And this can get, again, going back to resilience,
 this can get a bit exhausting, obviously.
 And right now I'm mentioning LTV.
 We obviously had the same issues with marketing mix modeling
 where you constantly have the ground moving,
 enter your feed and you need to keep up the pace.
 I talked about the professional context
 on a more personal note.
 About joining, having to lead a team of two individuals
 being tasked with the way bigger mission of building a data
 department, I think it's more of the classic imposter syndrome
 and the difficulty of transitioning from a nice year role
 to a small scale manager role to a function,
 especially when you're surrounded by people
 that are what you consider way more technical
 or way smarter than you are.
 It's that at some point you need to accept
 that if you're granted those responsibilities,
 ultimately it's not necessarily your own fault
 and means that you're surrounded by people that trust you.
 And so you can, well, delay the responsibility
 of this choice to them and that you understand as well
 that in order to help your team,
 you don't need to be the smartest in the room anymore
 or to try to keep up with their knowledge.
 The only thing that you need to do
 is to enable as best as possible and to help them.
 And so each one of my one to one would start always
 with the question of, hey, how can I help you?
 And when you are doing this mental switch in your mind,
 it obviously goes way better, but I think
 that imposter syndrome is a bit classic
 when in those circumstances.
 So what's next for the team now?
 So I focused a lot on acquisition related decision support
 systems.
 There's obviously quite some work
 that I didn't mention on the engage in monetized front
 such as next best action models, which
 are a set of models that tell the life-likeled systems,
 our CRMs, which communications to send to a customer,
 depending on the state that they're in.
 If they're about to turn, we detect
 that they have a behavior that's unusual.
 They haven't done any transaction in X time.
 We say, hey, send them maybe this communication.
 They use a specific product.
 Maybe we want to upsell them to a different type of product.
 So we have these current models.
 The idea will be to basically scale up those models
 with more machine learning.
 And so really transitioning the team
 from everything that's building products for human consumption,
 to building products, to service consumption,
 and machine consumption per se.
 So next best action is our first step
 of feeding machine information for automated decision making.
 We're going to also apply that for the acquisition domain,
 where we're basically going to start feeding back
 some of those user value metrics, profitability metrics,
 to the marketing platforms, so that instead
 of us doing manual optimization,
 the platforms themselves understand which type of consumer
 they need to reach out to in order
 to optimize towards user value.
 I think that this is one of the big transitions
 that the team is going to go through in the next month or years.
 Is there a resource you'd like to recommend today?
 I mean, I'm a big listener to the podcast,
 so I'm going to skip on some of the classics,
 like the data mesh book from Jamak Dugani,
 fundamentals of data engineering from Jorise.
 More generally, a book that shaped my vision of value streams
 and now to get teams closer together,
 is not related to data at all, but it's
 called Phoenix Project from Jean Kim,
 which was a book that basically described the birth of DevOps
 per se, then you went to write a few other books,
 like the DevOps and book, Accelerate, Unicorn Project.
 And I think that this set of books is very, very interesting
 in order to understand how to make teams more efficient overall.
 And I think that there's a lot of learnings that we can get
 from this and to apply in the data realm.
 Organative books.
 Amazing.
 Actually, the Phoenix Project is right behind you.
 I love it.
 So where in line, I love it.
 I will add the link in description.
 And last, what do you enjoy most working in data?
 I think it's being right between business and tech,
 being able in the morning to have conversations about where
 to spend your next Euro in marketing or to be in a room
 where you discuss the creatives
 that are going to be displayed somewhere.
 And in the afternoon, to talk about, I don't know,
 how to transition to a data mesh organization
 within your business, or to solve more tech problems
 in the evening, I think this is just amazing.
 And the second thing as well is in comparison
 to being part of a product team per se,
 is that if we're talking about a machine learning model
 or we're talking about a dashboard, your customer
 is generally right in front of you
 because it's internal to the business.
 And so you have an immediate feedback loop
 when you're building those products.
 And so you can do the user research.
 You can get the feedback from your stakeholders directly.
 And this is wonderful.
 Amazing.
 Mattas, thank you so much for coming on the pod.
 See you soon.
 Thank you so much.
 Thank you for listening to this episode.
 Before the end, I have a small favor to ask you.
 If it's not done yet, could you add five stars
 and a review on Apple Podcast?
 This is what helps me make known the podcast
 and attract incredible guests.
 Thanks and see you soon.
